We're about to see all of
the concepts we've talked
about today come together through
something called mapped types.
This is the most powerful tool,
in my opinion, for
transforming types,
right, taking some type,
making it another type in a very
organized and deliberate way.
Where does mapped types get its name from?
A great way to remember it is
it's kind of like array.map,
if you're familiar with that,
in that what we're about to see it
feels sort of like looping behavior.
Where we're iterating over
all the keys of something and
we're producing a type for a value.
Again, we're purely talking
about type information here, but
the mental model of array.map and
looping through and providing that
transformative logic that you'd define
with the callback for array.map.
That's conceptually gonna fit pretty
nicely with what we're about to see here.
Let's take a look at the basics.
So if you recall from
TypeScript fundamentals V3, or
equivalent experience in the wild,
index signatures.
You've seen index signatures before,
hopefully, and
this is what they look like.
Note that we have kind of an arbitrary
word here describing a property key.
It's an arbitrary property key with
an arbitrary name, meaning for
a dictionary, if I access any key at all,
I'll get this value type out.
And then here is the value type.
So this is like a generic type for
a dictionary.
I mentioned this in
the fundamentals class.
I'll often say I want t or undefined here,
because there's always a possibility
that when you access something on
a dictionary, it might not be there.
And I want to keep myself honest and
to make sure I check for
the presence of a thing when I
grab it out of a dictionary.
So we could see here, we can create
a what I'm calling a fruit catalog.
It's a dictionary of fruits,
it'll start out empty.
Here I'm kinda illustrating
the problem I just talked about.
But when we access any key we wish
despite the fact that this is empty,
we see we get a fruit back.
So this what we're passing in for the t
and we're kinda threading it through.
This is an index signature,
we've already covered this before.
I'm gonna introduce a new concept here.
And why did need a new concept?
Because the only thing an index
signature allows us to do is say for
an arbitrary key, here is the type
you can expect to receive.
What if we have something more
specific than just a narrow string?
Or sorry, something more
specific than any string rather.
What if we have a list of properties and
we wish to use that and
not just the Wild West like you
could put fruitCatalog.turnip or
whatever you want, right?
We don't want that, we want
something a little more deliberate.
Well, this mapped type is gonna
allow us to do something like this.
Now, because in my mind at least, when I
say the word dictionary, that means this
very flexible key value store where I can
hang whatever I want on an arbitrary key.
So I'm gonna actually call
this something different,
given that we're no longer gonna
be in the world of arbitrary keys.
We have a set description of
the keys we wish to use and
then we have some value types.
So we're gonna call that a record,
and to avoid collision with something
that exists in TypeScript already,
I'm gonna call this MyRecord, right?
Just to avoid colliding
with an existing type.
So here's what's going to change.
This is our interface as before,
and here is the new signature.
And we can look at these
side by side in a moment.
But for now, I want you to look at
the fact that when I access cherry and
apple, I get a type of
fruit that's coming out.
But when I try to access pineapple,
we get nothing.
Pineapple does not exist on MyRecord,
and cherry and apple are here.
So it seems that we're able to say,
here are the specific property
keys that I wish to use.
Whereas with the index type,
it was kinda like put it anywhere in
this object and I will hold it for you.
So let's compare these two
signatures side by side.
On the top, we have this mapped type and
on the bottom,
we have the index signature.
And I've hidden out the type for
the value here, because really,
that's not what these
signatures are all about.
We can put whatever we want
there in that dot, dot, dot.
We'll talk about that later.
Right now let's just look at the stuff
that's on the left side of the colon.
So index signature,
the name doesn't really matter.
I mean, you can put something there if
it will help the reader understand what
you're trying to do, maybe it's
customer ID or something like that.
Something that has some
meaning to the reader, but
it's not as if you're referring
to this value anywhere.
You're not saying name doesn't matter
dot whatever, you can't use that.
We're gonna see later that in this
mapped type, we're able to use this.
So giving it a name and
making that name descriptive is
a little bit more important.
So here we have a colon in a regular index
signature, and here we have this word in.
And you can think of,
when I talk about looping behavior,
think of this union type
as what we're looping over.
And think of this as your i, right?
For i equals 0 and loop over this.
Or if you're doing a for in, right,
where you're like,
const key in dictionary.
Fruit key is first gonna be apple and
then it's gonna be cherry, and
we're kind of processing, at least
mentally we can think of it as a loop.
Now remember,
this is just type information.
So there's no code that's being run and
looping.
There's nowhere you could put a break
point to see what's going on.
But the mental model of
looping will hold up here.
So mapped type lets you be
more constrained and specific.
Index signature, by its very nature,
is about defining arbitrary
key value relationships,
different tools for different jobs.
One's not necessarily
better than the other.
But if you were to say FruitKey in string,
you would now be using
a mapped type that is equivalent
to the index signature below.
Cuz it would just iterate,
it would say like for every string,
every possible string,
here is the way I defined my value type.
If that statement is not proof, that
statement should be proof that there is no
real looping that's
happening behind the scenes.
Because there's no way to iterate over
every possible string in JavaScript,
not in a way that will perform.
There's just no way,
let's just say there's no way.
It's sort of a projection but
it feels like looping to us.
We can think of it as looping.
So the in keyword, it's a telltale sign
you're dealing with a mapped type.
And index signatures, you can only
define them on arbitrary strings or
arbitrary numbers.
That's it.
And look what happens if we try to be more
constrained in a regular index signature.
We're literally told that these
error messages are getting
better with every release, consider
using a mapped object type instead.
If we attempt to do the thing that
mapped types are designed to do, or
we're doing it the wrong way, we're told,
just go make a mapped type, please.
Cool, so that's the difference.
Seems like an index signature builds on
top of that concept, but it's different.
So, let's make our MyRecord type
just to show what that is, right?
This is not generic yet.
It very specifically operates on apple and
cherry, and
it very specifically operates on fruit.
Let's make that a bit more generalized.
So what we're gonna do is replace
this fruit key thing, right?
Where it says FruitKey in apple or cherry.
So let's rename that to key, down here.
And then we're gonna pass in this apple or
cherry thing.
We'll make that a type parameter here.
We'll call it the KeyType.
And that'll be the first thing.
And then this thing to the right of
the colon, you've got this fruit.
So we wanna make that generic.
We'll pull that into
a type parameter as well.
So that's all we're doing.
And by the way, this is from
an experienced practitioner of TypeScript.
This is a good pattern to follow,
implement the non-abstract thing,
and then start pulling things
out to make it parameterized.
It's a good way to make sure that you
at least can affirm that continues to
work with the use case you care about.
So now we'll end up with
something like this.
It's much more generalized
where we can specify here
that we can pass in something
like apple or cherry, right?
Pass that in as strings.
Kind of like those will be
the names of the properties.
This will be the values,
the value of the property.
And then it's almost like we're looping
over everything in the key type we
passed in.
First apple, then cherry, and
then we're giving this type.
We're giving it a value
type on the other side.
Now, this is already
built into TypeScript,
but now you understand
how it works hopefully.
So it's called Record.
And I want you to look at these side
by side and see that aside from this,
the names of these properties,
which I've tried to be just a bit
more descriptive than single letters.
We had the same form here, with one
exception, and that's like this keyof any.
But down here, you can see that like,
these are the types of keys
that JavaScript allows.
You can have numbers, symbols or
strings, and that's it.
So I've just said, okay, well, strings,
this is most of the stuff I care to
work with here has property
keys that are strings.
So that's a difference in the constraint,
but
doesn't make things
fundamentally different.
And then we have key in,
some type that we passed in.
So this is property key in K,
well, there it is.
And then there's the second type of param,
and there it is.
And here's our second type of param,
So really, what we're able to do with this
mapped type is build up
an object with a set of
known keys that have
a consistent value type.
That's the first use case for this.
Now, why might you care about this?
Well, sometimes you want to maybe
have a bunch of form fields and
they each have sort of a value and
whether they're validated or not.
It's great to have a nice
dictionary like this, especially if
you're pre-creating one and you know
exactly what you expect to be there.
I'm blurring the line here between
a record and a dictionary.
But this is a quick and
easy way to go ahead and create one.
I would say this is
a subtype of a dictionary.
A dictionary is flexible in that
you can have arbitrary keys and
this has specific keys.
So this is just a more specific
thing than a dictionary.